---
layout: default
title: Planner Integration
---
# Planner Integration

The Task Planner Plugin comes not only with some built-in planners, but also provides the ability to integrate other ones with small effort. To do so, a planner integration script has to be written, and used like described in the [Setup Form Section](/PlanningSetupForm.md). This page explains how to write an integration script for a planner.    

## Overview

The integration of a planner has to fulfill four tasks:  
At first, it has to **trigger** the planner, to plan the specific task. After this process, the script has to **parse** the resulting plan into an internal plugin format. The third task is to **clean up** the system, in case the planner wrote any persistent files, and the last step the script has to accomplish, is to create a **report** and return it to the plugin. 

## Integration
To integrate a planner, a class derived from the plugins "PlannerInterface" needs to be created, and the method "plan_scenario" has to be implemented. The purpose of this method is to fulfill the four tasks mentioned above, and described below. This is a skeleton for an integration script: 

```Python
from rafcontpp.model.planner_interface import PlannerInterface
from rafcontpp.model.planning_report import PlanningReport
from rafcontpp.model.plan_step import PlanStep

class MyIntegration(PlannerInterface)ː
     
     def plan_scenario(self, domain_path, facts_path, planner_argv, storage_path):
        #Do all four tasks here
        return PlanningReport(planning_successful, plan, generated_files, error_message)
```
### 1. Trigger the Planner
The first step is to trigger the planner, e.g. make it plan the task. The arguments of "plan_scenario", which are probably needed are "domain_path", which contains the path of the pddl domain file as string, "facts_path", which contains the path of the pddl facts file as string, and "planner_argv" which is a string array, potentially containing additional planner arguments. Worth mentioning is, that the plugin supports concurrent task planning, e.g. More tasks can run at a time. So it may be useful to ensure, that two tasks, using two instances of the same planner, do not interfere with eachother, e.g. Overriding temporary files.   

### 2. Parse the Plan
If planning was successful, the resulting plan has to be parsed into the plugin's internal format. A parsed plan, is a list of "PlanSteps" in right order, and a PlanStep represents one action in the plan, e.g. Is the name of the instantiated action and a list of its arguments. So the part "cook bob soup" or "(cook bob soup)(1)" in a plan, would result in a PlanStep('cook',['bob','soup']). This is the constructor for "PlanStep":

```Python
PlanStep(action_name:String, [argument:String])
```
### 3. Clean Up
When parsing the plan is done, the system should be cleand up. Therefore all files, generated by the planner should be moved into the directory specified in "storage_path". Also a list should be generated, containing the names of these files. If the planner didn't generate a persistent plan file, it maybe useful to rectify this here. 

### 4. Create a Planning Report
The last step is to report the planning results. Therefore a planning report has to be generated. It contains the following:  
1. Information about wether planning was successful.
2. The plan, this is the parsed plan from [step two](#2-parse-the-plan).
3. The list, containing the names of all generated files from [step three](#3-clean-up). 
4. An error message. If planning was successful, this message is irrelevant, but otherwise it would be useful, if it indicates what went wrong.  

These informations are summed up in a "PlanningReport" object, which has to be returned to the plugin. This is it's constructor:

```Python
PlanningReport(planning_successful:Boolean, plan:[PlanStep], generated_files:[String], error_message:String)
```

That's it. The planner is now usable within the plugin. 


## Using the integrated Planner
The script written to integrate the planner, referred to as planner script, is now ready to use.
So when the planner should be used to plan a task, this script should be selected as "planner script" and "Other..." as planner in the [Planning Setup Form](PlanningSetupForm.md).
